in this lesson we're going to explore
the functionality and usage of azure
monitor
i can think about this vast number of
different services that are part of our
azure solution
remember we have things like azure ad
this is our identity store
well that has various types of log that
get generated i can think about audit
logs
there are sign-in logs there are various
risk logs there are other types of logs
available
then i have my azure subscription itself
and remember that is kind of this unit
and container
of activities related through that azure
resource manager control plane so things
that i'm doing via arm well there's an
activity log
additionally there's things around
service health which we're going to talk
about in a bit more detail
then i have the resources themselves
and resources have really two different
types of telemetry that are coming out
different types of signals i can think
about various types of metrics
but also there are going to be different
types of logs
now i'm going to put the logs
in optional the reason for this
is the metrics by default if i think
about azure monitor
azure monitor has a built-in kind of
time series database and these metrics
go
to azure monitor
but logs do not logs do not exist by
default from a monitoring perspective if
i want to capture logs
these
azure id logs and these subscription
logs they're just natively available for
a certain period of time
for the subscription these are kind of
90 days they're just available
for the azure ad actually depends on the
type of subscription it might be seven
days it might be 35 if i have kind of a
premium a p1
but the logs don't exist anywhere
i have to actually do something around
diagnostic
settings
and then there's going to be various
types of logs available that i can send
to some target
now there's three types of target that i
can send to
i could send it to azure storage
that's good for retention
but i can't really do much with it but
it's just i want to keep it for a period
of time
i could send it to event hub so event
hub is a publish subscribe service and
the goal of this is there would be some
external solution
for example a sim
that wants that so then it would go and
take it from there
or i can send it to a log analytics
workspace
this is an azure component as the name
suggests it's for logging and analysis
and that can be up to
two years of retention i pay based on
data ingested
and
also the amount of time i keep it for so
i can pick a combination of these things
to send those two
i can also
send all of these things to a log
analytics workspace as well so
optionally i could send the metrics
to those combinations of spaces and i
can gather these other things to keep as
well
so the point of azure monitor is it's
that central hub to manage all of these
various things that are happening i can
go and look at the metrics
but it also this log analytics workspace
is actually now part
of azure monitor we call it an azure
monitor log analytics workspace for log
and azure monitor workspace
when i have all these pieces of data the
other thing azure monitor does is yes it
lets me look at it i could absolutely
jump over for a second
and look at the portal
and if i go down to monitor i can look
at metrics
and i would pick what do you want to
look at hey i can see all my different
resources
and i could pick the certain metrics i
care about maybe an easier way to look
at this is if i just pick an existing
resource
we'll see a metrics blade available
there as well
and from that i can look at the things
the various
time-based numeric values
of the things i care about so maybe it's
blob i want to look at blob capacity hey
i can see that capacity of what i'm
using so this is using that native azure
monitor capability
so azure monitor is
fantastic for hey i want to just look at
all those metrics look at those various
things let me see azure monitor logs
which is that log analytics workspace
and there are many things built on top
of that log analytics workspace there
are things like insights that give me
curated views
of things that we probably care about
but one of the things we're going to
face
is if we kind of
look at this idea of the azure monitor
we have the diagnostic settings we can
send it to those various places is i
might want to do something yes i want to
look at the data
but maybe i don't want to constantly be
looking at it so the other thing azure
monitor can do is i can actually define
alert rules so in azure monitor i can
create alert rules
so alert rules
can look at hey i can look at all those
metrics
i can also look at things like the
activity log
i can look at things from a log
analytics workspace
and then based on those
if i meet the rule it can generate an
alert
now those alerts i can see in the portal
i could see it on things like that azure
mobile app we talked about but then i
can also create action rules i want to
do something so optionally
i could have action rules
that get triggered by certain types of
alert that might be to send an sms
message i might send email
i might call a web hook
i might call a serverless technology
what are those hey i could call an azure
function
i could call a logic app
i could integrate with an itsm
so now i have all these different types
of telemetry coming in
i can create alert rules to generate an
alert that i would see that would get
highlighted then optionally i could
create action rules as well and we see
all of that here in the portal
if i go and look at alerts the first
thing i can see is alert rules
and i've got a number here based on
different types of things that i might
have you can see i can create a new
alert rule
so based on the resource i select
i'll get different sources of things i
might act on if it was for example the
subscription itself
you'll see well the only available
signal type is the activity log itself
but if i was to maybe pick something
else so if i instead
looked at
virtual machines
and i picked
i don't know
all of them in this case you know it's
now hey there's activity log but if we
go and find
a particular vm
so let's jump down actually i'm going to
select all of that
and let's just pick a vm
there we go
notice my available signals
are still the activity log because
things can still happen to it but now i
could also trigger based on metrics
maybe its cpu goes above a certain value
so i can create those alert rules and
then what alert rule can do
is actually fire off an action group
which is a list of those things i want
to do
or i can separately define those
through once again my alerts
i have alert processing rules
and those can trigger based on alerts
that have been created
and it would call an action group
which is those selection of activities i
want to perform
we can see yes i can do notifications
hey i want to email someone or sms
someone
but also i have all these different
actions hey hook into an itsm call a
function a logic app a web hook event
hub automation run book
so azure monitor is that place i can go
to get a view of core information about
my entire environment across multiple
subscriptions
we have metrics there by default but it
will also hook into things like our
activity log
service health azure id
optionally i can get logs from resources
via diagnostic settings that can go to
different places but log analytics
workspace is a core
gathering of any type of log and then
analysis on top of that
and many solutions like insights and
azure sentinel actually will sit on top
of that then if i want to automate
things here i can create alert rules
action rules to call those action groups
so those action rules are calling here
these are defined in my action group
to perform
something so that's the key goal of
what's happening
and that's what we're doing fashion
monitor